# Roadmap 2022

This is the roadmap planned by the Integration team at Meilisearch for the year 2022.

Nothing is definitive: the roadmap can be adapted depending on the need of the users and the company.

## 2022: the Main Lines

#### Objectives

- Better know our users and our community to ease our decision making
  - set the analytics on every integration
  - Extract information from them to prioritize our tasks
- Keep working with the community, improve our way of working with the contributors by creating clearer issues, and by providing more and more "good first issues".
- Work with the @meilisearch/devrel-team to have help for the support for answering issues. The goal is to allow the integration team developers to focus on the PR reviews and their coding tasks, rather than doing support.
- Work with the @meilisearch/docs-team to provide complete and easy-to-maintain documentation for each SDK
- Be more organized regarding our rhythm of working
    - during the pre-release period: improve the process and define steps for each sprint
    - during the implementation period: find the right balance between maintenance and new content addition.
- Road to v1! In 2022, Meilisearch is starting the implementation and the stabilization of the API regarding the release of the first stable version of Meilisearch (v1.0.0). The integration team must start to think about it and adapt their integrations in this v1 objective. For example, the stabilization of the most popular integrations will be necessary.
- Release our first database integrations since we don't provide any in 2021.

#### Human resources

- [x] New manager welcoming
- [ ] _(delayed to Q3)_ Recruitment of new developers

## Q1

Database:
- [x] Finish Firebase integration
- [ ] _(WIP, moved to Q2)_ Write the "Firebase + Meilisearch" article

Strapi:
- [x] Make Strapi plugin compatible with the new Strapi MarketPlace. Will depend on the Strapi's docs.
- [ ] _(will be done by dev rel team)_ Write article "how to make your plugin compatible with the new Strapi MarketPlace"
- [ ] _(we decided to not participate of the conference)_ Participate to the Strapi conference in March

Back-end web framework:
- [ ] _(delayed to Q3 or Q4)_ Start Laravel integration containing the missing features in [Laravel/Scout](https://github.com/laravel/scout)

Front-end
- [x] Fix the pagination issues in `instant-meilisearch`
- [x] First release of Gatsby

Clean the technical debt:
- [ ] _(WIP, delayed to Q3)_ Start cleaning the Java SDK that contains a "double" implementation

Misc:
- [ ] _(WIP, moved to Q2)_ Implement analytics in SDKs
- [ ] _(WIP, moved to Q2)_ Implement analytics in every repository
- Changes regarding the Meilisearch releases
  - [x] Finish changes regarding the new task API
  - [x] Finish changes regarding the API keys
  - [x] Finish changes regarding the new index routes
  - [ ] _(WIP, moved to Q2)_ Add the tenant tokens methods

## Q2

Analytics:
- [ ] Finish the implementation in the remaining SDKs:
  - [ ] _(delayed to Q3 because it will be possible to implement only after v0.28)_ Javascript
  - [ ] _(delayed to Q3 because the idea is not to add more code to the Java SDK before the refactor)_ Java
  - [x] Rust
- [x] Plan how we will implement the analytics on the non-sdk.
- [x] Define the specs to support analytics in front-end tools with core team.
- [ ] _(delayed to Q3 because it will be possible to implement only after v0.28)_ Implement it on the all the integrations maintained by the integration team.

Processes:
- [x] Change the Integrations' Team developers scope: make it adapted to each developer, but also to reduce the context switches.

Improvements:
- [ ] _(ongoing work, will be ready on Q3)_ Add a helpful docker/compose setup in every integration.
- [ ] _(postponed, no return forecast)_ Code coverage:
  - [ ] Define the tool which will be used (codecov, coveralls, others).
  - [ ] Implement it in the SDKs.
  - [ ] Implement it on the integrations which makes sense to have coverage.

Meilisearch releases:
- [x] [v0.27 work](https://github.com/meilisearch/integration-guides/issues/190):
  - [x] Docker run changes
  - [x] Support nested fields
  - [x] Customize the typo tolerance
  - [x] Add support to use the new cropping and highlighting search attributes
- [ ] _(ongoing work, will be ready on Q3)_ [v0.28 work](https://github.com/meilisearch/integration-guides/issues/205):
  - [ ] New API namings, could impact multiple resources and nomenclatures, like dumps, keys, search, and indexes.
  - [ ] New behavior to update keys
  - [ ] HTTP verbs changes
  - [ ] Add pagination to the multiple API resources (keys, tasks, indexes, documents).
  - [ ] Changes related to the dumps resources
  - [ ] Add PATCH support to Java SDK.

## Q3

The general idea for the 3rd quarter is:

- Have all of our integrations (but DevOps tools) with the analytics implementation, to give us data to improve our decision-making in the future.
- Finish ongoing projects like documentation and docker.
- Ruby community is the 3rd most used according to our internal metrics, and we have some features asked by the users that could be implemented with a small-time effort. The same idea can be applied to the Symfony integration, not necessarily with new features, but maintenance in general.
- Java is a whole subject apart since it has a huge maintainability problem because it has a double implementation and has a lack of support for the PATCH method.

With that thought in mind, we should be able to start planning new integrations in the next quarters since we will have dealt with most of the critical issues/finished some working-in-progress jobs in this quarter.

Meilisearch releases:
- [x] [v0.28 work](https://github.com/meilisearch/integration-guides/issues/205):
  - [x] New API namings, will impact multiple resources and nomenclatures, like dumps, documents, keys, tasks, search, and indexes.
  - [x] New behavior to update keys
  - [x] HTTP verbs changes
  - [x] Add pagination to the multiple API resources (keys, tasks, indexes, documents).
  - [x] Changes related to the dumps resources
  - [x] Add PATCH support to Java SDK.
- [x] [v0.29 work](https://github.com/meilisearch/integration-guides/issues/213):
  - [x] New query parameter addition `matchingStrategy`


Misc:
- [ ] Add analytics to these integrations:
  - [x] Javascript
  - [ ] Java
  - [x] Strapi
  - [ ] Laravel?
  - [x] Ruby on Rails
  - [x] Symfony
  - [x] Instant Meilisearch
  - [x] Docs Searchbar
  - [x] Gatsby
  - [x] VuePress
  - [x] Firebase
  - [x] .Net, Dart, Golang, PHP, Python, Ruby, Rust, Swift.
- [x] Start tidying up all the repositories for the Hacktoberfest.
  - [x] Removing old issues that are outdated or don't make much sense anymore.
  - [x] Creating new issues labeled `good first issue`.
- [x] Make firestore-meilisearch [ready to be published in the official marketplace page](https://extensions.dev/).
- [ ] DigitalOcean Add-On integration:
  - [x] Improve Meilisearch Cloud environment to make it ready to receive a new provider: DigitalOcean Add-On marketplace.
  - [ ] Deliver a full integration between the Add-On and the Cloud.

Improvements:
- [x] Add a helpful docker/compose setup on [these integrations](https://github.com/meilisearch/integration-guides/issues/199):
  - [x] .Net
  - [x] Golang
  - [x] Rust
  - [ ] ~Instant Meilisearch (not required)~
  - [x] Swift
  - [x] Dart, Java, JavaScript, PHP, Python, Ruby, Ruby on Rails, Symfony.

New features:
- [ ] _(delayed to Q4, because other projects have been prioritized)_ instant-meilisearch updates:
  - [ ] Add multi-index (federated search) in [instant-meilisearch](https://github.com/meilisearch/meilisearch-js-plugins/issues/774).
  - [ ] Add disjunctive facet search to [instant-meilisearch](https://github.com/meilisearch/meilisearch-js-plugins/tree/main/packages/instant-meilisearch) (issue creation + implementation)
- [x] On/Off switcher in [meilisearch-rails](https://github.com/meilisearch/meilisearch-rails/issues/140).
- [ ] _(delayed to Q4, because we had other priorities)_ Improve performance in meilisearch-rails by reducing the payload size with `attributesToRetrieve` automatically.
- [ ] Add auto generated documentation [in some of the SDKs](https://github.com/meilisearch/integration-guides/issues/201):
  - [ ] _(postponed, no return forecast, because we have a good reference in the repo's README)_ JavaScript
  - [x] PHP
  - [x] Python
  - [x] Rust, Dart
- [x] Make zero facet appearing even when using placeholder search in [instant-meilisearch](https://github.com/meilisearch/meilisearch-js-plugins/issues/775).
- [x] Make strapi-plugin-meilisearch for v3 of Strapi  [compatible with the latest of Meilisearch](https://github.com/meilisearch/strapi-plugin-meilisearch/issues/444).
- [x] [Add a new setting `entriesQuery`](https://github.com/meilisearch/strapi-plugin-meilisearch/pull/538) in strapi to give the possibility to provide database querying settings.

Maintenance:
- [ ] _(delayed to Q4)_ Enhance `pagy` documentation in the meilisearch-rails.
- [x] Java refactor to increase the contributability:
  - [x] Create a strategy plan to refactor the Java SDK.
  - [x] Add `okhttp` as hard dependency (to support PATCH methods).
  - [x] Remove duplicated code
 - [x] Add tests to [cover some parts of the code](https://github.com/meilisearch/strapi-plugin-meilisearch/issues/351) in strapi-plugin-meilisearch that is not tested at all.
 - [x] Remove support for `Node v12` ensure support for `Node v18` in every JavaScript repo.

## Q4

The general idea for the 4th quarter is being ready for the v1 era of Meilisearch :tada:. Close ongoing projects, and get all the low-hanging fruits as possible before the year ends.

- The DevOps tools attract lots of attention to us as one of the easiest ways to put Meilisearch in production, but today we cannot trust those scripts. @alallema worked last year on a proof of concept that could solve our trust issues and reduce the maintenance burden of those integrations by adding Packer to our toolbelt. Packer will help us publish images in the Cloud providers easily.
- Took the first step of our new big project, "Docscraper 2.0". This step checks if autocomplete.js and docsearchbar v3 are compatible with our instant-meilisearch client. We will introduce the initial action plan to build that bridge if they aren't.
- The PHP community is a massive part of Meilisearch's users. Creating a new integration for Laravel is a must-have. Today Laravel users must rely on the Meilisearch built-in integration in the Laravel Scout, that's awesome. Still, we can do better and unleash all the potential Meilisearch could offer to those people. An attempt was made in the past [see more](https://github.com/meilisearch/integration-guides/issues/123). During this quarter we should create a action plan for the MVP of this new integration.

Meilisearch releases:
- [x] v0.30 work:
  - [x] Add support to finite/fixed or just [numbered pagination](https://github.com/meilisearch/meilisearch/discussions/2635)
    - [x] Also, remove all the workarounds in this theme's Rails and Symfony integrations.
  - [x] New route API's to cancel tasks enqueued tasks
  - [x] New route API's to delete old tasks and also flush tasks
  - [x] Add support for the index name swapping

Maintenance:
- [x] Enhance `pagy` documentation in the meilisearch-rails.
- [x] _(done, but not released, waiting more test cov, https://github.com/meilisearch/meilisearch-rails/pull/228)_ ~Improve performance in meilisearch-rails by reducing the payload size with `attributesToRetrieve` automatically.~
- [ ] Wrap up the Java SDK and release the new enhanced version with the addition of support to
  - [x] v0.28 Meilisearch version
  - [ ] v0.29 Meilisearch version
  - [x] Add analytics setup to the SDK.

New projects:
- [ ] Implement packer.io to build Meilisearch images for the cloud providers.
- [ ] Build the action plan to create the MVP of the new Laravel-Scout-Integration-Extended on our side.
- [x] Autocomplete compatibility:
  - [x] Do the complete research around autocomplete.js and docsearchbar v2 support with our JavaScript client.
  - [x] Provide the action plan to add support for those libraries in case they are incompatible.

Misc:
  - [x] Add multi-index (federated search) in [instant-meilisearch](https://github.com/meilisearch/meilisearch-js-plugins/issues/774).
  - [x] Add disjunctive facet search to [instant-meilisearch](https://github.com/meilisearch/meilisearch-js-plugins/tree/main/packages/instant-meilisearch) (issue creation + implementation)
- [ ] DigitalOcean Add-On integration:
  - [ ] Finish the integration between the Add-On and the Cloud.
  - [ ] Release publicly the new Add-On in the DigitalOcean marketplace.
