# Roadmap 2023

This is the roadmap planned by the Integration team at Meilisearch for 2023.

Nothing is definitive: the roadmap can be adapted depending on the need of the users and the company.

## 2023: the Main Lines

Starting in 2023, all the Meilisearch teams are going to define OKRs to track performance and achieve goals throughout the year.
Here are the OKRs defined for the Integrations Team.

### OKRs
- **Objective 1: Increase retention of the users.**
    - ✅ **KR 1**: Implement a new process to group SDKs on priority tiers which will help create more time for new integrations.
    - ✅ **KR 2**: Maintain the retention rate around 70% with a 5% margin of error from the last three months.
- **Objective 2: Bring more developers to the SDKs and make them thrive**
    - ⚠️ **KR 1**: Redirect 25% of the time spent in maintenance to create new integrations.
    - ✅ **KR 2**: Increase by 15% the number of monthly active SDKs users. (ref number: 4k)

### Objectives

- Focus on the impact: Spend time updating SDKs that are mostly used, and work with the community for the other ones.
- Keep working with the community, improve our way of working with the contributors by creating more evident issues, and provide more and more "good first issues".
- Work closer to the DevRel and Docs teams to help engage new users and make them stay.
- Release at least two new integrations/tools based on the data collected by the community.
- Rework the current DevOps process and make it stable and reliable.
  - Also add the support for the most significant providers out there, which we are not present yet (Azure and Alibaba cloud)

## Q1

We're entering a new era in 2023, and now we want to achieve some goals we were unable to last year. It is time to increase our DevOps CI's reliability and take the opportunity to be present in two of the biggest cloud providers: Azure and Alibaba. Together they control 26% of the market share. This could be a good advertisement for the company and bring more users.

We are also entering a phase where new projects, not just integrations, will be requested by the team, so we must know where to spend our precious maintenance time. That's why we're going to introduce SDK tiers.


Processes:
- [x] Introduce the versioning policy for the post-v1 era. (O1K1)
- [x] Introduce the SDK tiers, to improve our time management in a transparent way. (O1K1)

New projects:
- [ ] _(delayed to Q2, no enough time to finish during Q1)_ Add the usage support for the [autocomplete.js](https://github.com/algolia/autocomplete), this project will be finished by the end of the Q1. (O2K2)
- [x] Implement **packer.io** to build Meilisearch images for the cloud providers, this project will be started during this quarter and finished in the Q2 (O2K1, O2K2)

Maintenance:
- [x] Add Meilisearch engine version v1.0.0 support for the integrations and SDKs. (O1K2)
- [x] Add Meilisearch engine version v0.30 support for Swift. (O1K2)
- [x] Add Meilisearch engine version v1.0.0 support for Swift. (O1K2)
- [x] Add Meilisearch engine version v0.29 support for Java. (O1K2)
- [x] Add Meilisearch engine version v0.30 support for Java. (O1K2)
- [x] Add Meilisearch engine version v1.0.0 support for Java. (O1K2)
- Changes regarding the Meilisearch release v1.1 (_TBD_) (O2K2, O1K2)
  - [x] Improve geo-search with `_geoBoundingBox`.
  - [x] Perform multiple index searches in a single query.
  - [x] _(not planned)_ ~Delete documents by a filter query.~


## Q2

One of the main ideas for this quarter is to keep working on two fronts, bringing more developers to meilisearch throughout the SDKs and ensuring they are still trusting our integrations. 
We know, based on feedback, that our responsiveness is part of the selling points. And since we want to create more integrations and consequently spend more time on them than compared to the "old" ones, we want to ensure we're not losing anyone because of a lack of communication, so automating that and having data will help us to keep on track.
Plus, we want to give some attention to contributor's tools by starting a process of managing that well for both sides.

### OKRs
- **Objective 1: Increase retention of the users.**
    - **KR 1**: Maintain the retention rate around 70% with a 5% margin of error from the last three months.
    - **KR 2**: Introduce tooling to track our reactiveness interacting with our communities on GitHub.
- **Objective 2: Bring more developers to the SDKs and make them thrive**
    - **KR 1**: Grow [monthly active SDKs users](https://analytics.amplitude.com/meili/chart/syht2gv) from 6k to 10k (66% increase)


New projects:
- [ ] Finish the support for the [autocomplete.js](https://github.com/algolia/autocomplete). (O2K1)
- [ ] Create a suite of widgets to use in Flutter, a work done with direct collaboration with contributors. (O2K1)
- [ ] Start actively maintaining the [meilisync](https://github.com/long2ice/meilisync) tool in collaboration with its creator. (O2K1)
- [ ] Kick off the new scrapping project of Meilisearch, _more information in the following roadmaps_. (O2K1)

Maintenance:
- [ ] Fix the support of newer Java versions in the [meilisearch-java](https://github.com/meilisearch/meilisearch-java) SDK. (O2K1)
- [ ] Changes regarding [Meilisearch release v1.2](https://github.com/meilisearch/meilisearch/issues?q=is%3Aopen+is%3Aissue+milestone%3Av1.2.0+label%3A%22impacts+integrations%22) (O2K1)

Processes:
- [ ] Introduce a sync meeting between the Integrations and DevRel teams. (O1K1, O2K1)
- [ ] Add automation to measure the team's responsiveness in the integration repositories.
